# Curriculum Topics

Being a software engineer takes more than knowing how to code or create a web
app. It requires learning to think and build like a software engineer &mdash;
from developing coding mastery to gaining an understanding of how products are
designed and managed.

We designed our Online Software Engineering Curriculum to give you the necessary
skills in both back-end and front-end programming technologies to become a
hirable full-stack developer &mdash; able to land your first job in tech and
leverage it into a lifelong career.

You’ll develop a foundation of programming fundamentals, and conquer the
concepts of object-oriented programming. You will work with APIs (Application
Programming Interfaces), become proficient in database modeling and ORM (Object
Relational Mapping), understand the concept of the MVC (Model View Controller)
Framework, and execute application deployment. These concepts are taught using
test-driven development, allowing students to gain a real-world programming
experience, while giving instructors the ability to check on student progress
with ease. After completing each section of the curriculum, students are
required to complete a portfolio project and schedule a time to assess their
project with an Instructor (detailed below).

Finally, because being a professional developer requires you to constantly learn
and self-teach as you encounter difficult challenges or new technologies on the
job, this program focuses heavily on building this skill of self-teaching, with
the right amount of structure and support. Software development moves too
quickly for any skill to remain relevant forever. During the program, you are
encouraged to work with your classmates to solve problems, as well as use
various online tools (and lots of Google searching!) to discover new techniques
that may not be covered explicitly within the curriculum &mdash; a tactic
professional developers use every single day.

<table border="1" cellpadding="4" cellspacing="0">
    <tbody>
        <tr>
          <td><strong>Programming Fundamentals</strong></td>
          <td>Section 1</td>
          <td>OOP, Ruby</td>
          <td>You will get comfortable with object-oriented programming, learning to “scrape” websites with Ruby and build a command line interface program.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td rowspan=2><strong>Web Frameworks</strong></td>
          <td>Section 2</td>
          <td>HTML & CSS, SQL, ORM, Sinatra</td>
          <td rowspan=2>After diving into HTML5 & CSS, you will learn two key Ruby frameworks, first mastering the fundamentals of web programming with Sinatra before experiencing how quickly you can build incredible apps with Rails.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Section 3</td>
            <td>Rails</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><strong>JavaScript</strong></td>
          <td>Section 4</td>
          <td>JavaScript, JSON</td>
          <td>You’ll gain a thorough understanding of JavaScript and functional programming &mdash; crucial for front-end devs &mdash; and start to build your own version of React before moving onto the framework itself. You will also use Rails to build a back-end JSON API to be consumed with your JavaScript front-end.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><strong>Front-end Frameworks</strong></td>
          <td>Section 5</td>
          <td>React, Redux</td>
          <td>You will learn to build productive, scalable front-ends with React and Redux, creating slick, functional, reactive code with Redux as a state manager and Rails as the back-end JSON API.</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## Curriculum Changes

In addition to embracing an open-source curriculum &mdash; to reflect industry
trends and feedback &mdash; Flatiron has a dedicated Curriculum team who is
consistently revisiting content to make sure we are sharing up-to-date
information.

If you see a curricular error, please report it by clicking on the “Flag” icon
at the top of the lesson. This is where you’d report something like “When I type
the command that’s listed, the Terminal reports: ‘Not Found’.”

![alt text](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7960757/80300888-363a9400-8755-11ea-959c-a70fa150420c.png)

Differentiated from a curricular error, there are also inevitable “bugs” that
exist in the Learn environment. If you’ve completed a quiz or a lab, and for
some reason you can’t move on to the next lab, please submit a bug report to
<bugs@learn.co>. This is another key skill of a developer - being able to
articulate and document your findings.
